I am a Master's student in the Department of Biological Sciences at Florida Atlantic University working with Dr. Michael Salmon. I'm currently studying the impact of the fire ant pesticide hydramethylnon (AMDRO) on loggerhead sea turtle reproductive success and hatchling quality. 

Marine turtles are charismatic megafauna that have been the focus of a massive conservation effort in the last several decades. Some populations have enjoyed a promising recovery, while others are continuing to decline. The future of these animals remains in jeopardy due to a variety of anthropogenic threats, including fisheries bycatch, climate change, and poaching. In addition to these threats, sea turtles face pressure from nonnative terrestrial nest predators such as wild hogs, feral dogs, and fire ants. The predaceous red imported fire ant (Solenopsis invicta) is an invasive species that is considered a significant threat to some sea turtle nesting beaches. The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission currently recommends that fire ants in proximity to turtle nests be controlled by pouring boiling water onto mounds or by physically removing mounds with a shovel and bucket. These methods are not only impractical at many nesting sites, but also potentially risky to wildlife management personnel and the sea turtle nests they are trying to protect. 

In addition to the physical removal of fire ant colonies, the pesticide hydramethylnon (AMDRO) is widely used on sea turtle nesting beaches for the control of fire ants. Hydramethylnon is known to be mildly to highly toxic to some vertebrate species. However, the effect of this pesticide on sea turtle hatchlings (or any reptile species) remains unknown. The aim of my research is to investigate the impact of hydramethylnon on loggerhead sea turtle reproductive success and hatchling quality to determine if the application of this pesticide on sea turtle nests is a safe alternative to the physical removal of fire ant mounds. My eventual goal is to enable wildlife management personnel to make informed decisions with regards to use of this pesticide and ant removal on vulnerable sea turtle nesting beaches.  


In the past, I have worked with the South Florida Water Management District on the Kissimmee River Restoration Project, conducting fish surveys and geomorphic profile surveys of the restored river channel. I have also conducted swimming endurance studies with endangered lake sturgeon to determine the likelihood of their being impacted by dredging activity. 

In addition to research activities, I have a passion for environmental education and community outreach. I have been a counselor at youth environmental camps, led workshops on the identification and safe handling of reptiles and amphibians, and been an invited speaker at several public wildlife festivals. 

Publications (scholarly):
Hoover, J.J., Boysen, K.A., Beard, J.A., Smith, H.E. 2011. Assessing the risk of entrainment by cutterhead dredges to juvenile lake sturgeon (Acipenser fulvescens) and juvenile pallid sturgeon (Scaphirhynchus albus). Journal of Applied Ichthyology. 

Publications (just for fun!)
http://www.nanfa.org/ac/fine-fare-fairy-shrimp.pdf 
